>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
we can create, we can read and delete.
We can't update just yet, and we will, but
I feel like refreshing
all the time is no fun.
So what we'd like to do is get it so
that when the database changes
our UI changes, right?
And that will make it a little easier so
we don't have to keep re-fetching
from the database every time.
Before we put one in the database
when we created one,
then we immediately got it back out.
As this application grows,
I'm gonna be really honest,
I don't wanna do that anymore.
So what we're gonna do is say, hey,
whenever the database changes,
tell me about it.
And we'll update the UI to reflect that,
which is gonna involve a little
bit of refactoring our code.
And instead of get,
which will get you everything one time,
we're gonna do an on snapshot, which
will be every time,whatever that query,
whatever the scope of that query is.
In this case, it's all posts.
But if I limited it to ten,
it would be just the first ten.
Any time that data set changes,
we'll get a new snapshot, and
we can update the user interface.
Each change counts as a database query.
Right, so
just something to kinda keep in mind, but
like I said, we're not gonna
get anywhere close to that.
I think it takes,
I don't wanna quote numbers, but
it's pretty hefty before you
actually blow past the free plan.
So what we'll do is when
the component mounts,
we will subscribe to the changes
to the post collection.
And this is the application component,
so it'll theoretically always be there.
So we don't necessarily need
to clean up after ourselves,
but we're going to cuz it's polite.
And if you use this in some lower level
component, you could have the problem
where, okay, when the components mounts,
you start listening for the changes.
And then the user navigates away,
you never stop listening,
which means that that's still firing.
And it means that we have a whole bunch
of JavaScript objects that can't get
garbage collected, so on and so forth.
It's effectively a memory
leak at that point.
So what we'll do is when the component
mounts, we will start listening.
And when the component unmounts,
we will remove the listener,
we'll unsubscribe from those changes.
Cool, so
what we'll do is we need to hold on to the
function that we wanna unsubscribe from.
So we'll give ourselves just this
class property called unsubscribe.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll set that to null, for now.
And that's just to put
it in the class scope.
Now when the component mounts,
I can get rid of this code here.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll say
firestore.collection('posts').
This time, instead of get,
we're gonna say onSnapshot.
And that's not going to return a promise,
it's gonna take a callback.
Give me a function that you want me
to call every time the data changes.
So we'll take the snapshot, and
we'll do something very similar
from what we had before.
We'll say const posts = snapshot.docs.map.
We have that,
>> Steve Kinney: this.setState to posts.
Now this onSnapshot returns a function
that you can call to unsubscribe.
So that's where we'll say,
this.unsubscribe,
>> Steve Kinney: Equals this subscription.
>> Steve Kinney: So
when the component will unmount,
we'll call just this.unsubscribe, and
that will unsubscribe our listener so
that we are good to go.
>> Steve Kinney: Awesome, so this'll
get us a little bit of the way there.
You're gonna see, we do need to
do a little bit of clean up, but
it's the best kinda clean up.
It's the kinda clean up where
you delete code, right?
Those are my favorite refactorings,
I don't move anything around,
I just start deleting stuff.
And that's pretty much
the best feeling in the world.
So let's go ahead, and
what we will do is I'm gonna actually,
>> Steve Kinney: I'll
actually go make a new tab.
>> Steve Kinney: I don't know
about the rest of you, but
nothing makes me happier than
seeing two windows stay in sync.
>> Steve Kinney: So we'll go ahead,
and we'll make another post.
>> Steve Kinney: Whoa,
it happened on both simultaneously, right,
because both of them are subscribed to the
database just really just to make a point.
>> Steve Kinney: Watch
both of the screens.
Boom, real-time updates being
pushed to both of them.
>> Steve Kinney: We can also go ahead and
delete one, you see delete on both
of them, so on and so forth, right?
As the data changes, these updates
are pushed out to every connected user.